docs: default extension in visual studio code (#2819)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/default-extensions-for-microsoft-visual-studio-code.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configure default extensions
:keywords: extensions, workspace
:navtitle: Configure default extensions
// :page-aliases:

[id="visual-studio-code-default-extensions"]
= Configure default extensions

Default extensions, like recommended extensions, allow you to work with a pre-installed set of extensions.

Recommended extension is specified by adding the extension identifier to the workspace file or to the *.vscode/extensions.json* file of your project.

> When the editor is started up, the recommended extension will be fetched from the extension marketplace and installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the editor starts, the recommended extension will be fetched from the extension marketplace and installed.
```

> Default extension is specified by putting the extension binary *.vsix* file path to the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default extensions are specified by putting the extension binary *.vsix* file path to the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.
```

> After the startup, the editor checks for the environment variable, and if it is specified, takes the path to the extension and installs it in the background without disturbing the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After startup, the editor checks for the environment variable, and if it is specified, takes the path to the extensions and installs it in the background without disturbing the user.

Recommended extensions from *.vscode/extensions.json* and default extensions from the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable both installs extensions on editor startup. Recommended extensions are useful when extensions are different per workspace and when the desired extensions are available in the plugin registry configured in {prod-short}. Default extensions described in this documentation are useful for installing .vsix extensions by default from the editor level.
```

[NOTE]
====
It is possible to specify several extensions separated by semicolon.

[source,yaml]
----
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS='/projects/extension-1.vsix;/projects/extension-2.vsix'
----
====

> Below you can find several examples how to add a *.vsix* files to your workspace and how to define DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can find several examples how to add *.vsix* files to your workspace and how to define the DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable.
```

> .Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure

This documentation describes three different ways to embed default .vsix extensions for your workspace.
```

* Put the extension binary to the source repository.
+
The easiest way is to put the extension binary to the Git repository and define the environment variable in the devfile.
If the *extension.vsix* file exists in the repository root, the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ could be set for a tooling container.
Just specify it in your *.devfile.yaml* like below.
+
[source,yaml]
----

> components:
>   - name: tools
>     container:
>       image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
>       env:
>         - name: 'DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS'
>           value: '/projects/sample/extension.vsix'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: 'DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS'
          value: '/projects/example-project/extension.vsix'
```

Just a suggestion to provide a full devfile example

----

> * Use Devfile *postStart* event to fetch the extension binary from the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the Devfile *postStart* event to fetch extension binaries from the network.
```

+
It is possible to use *curl* or *wget* to download extensions to your workspace.
For that you need to:
+
** specify a devfile command to donload one or several extensions to your workpace
** add a *postStart* event to run the command on workspace startup

> ** define __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the Devfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the Devfile
```

+

> Following sample demonstrate what should be added to the devfile to add two extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sample demonstrates what should be added to the devfile to add two extensions.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
          value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'

commands:
  - id: add-default-extensions
    exec:
      # name of the tooling container
      component: tools
      # download several extensions using curl
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix

>         curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix

Reviewer: I wasn't able to install the default extensions with this method, I got this error message instead:

![Screenshot from 2024-11-13 16-28-01](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c6bcef4e-279f-4e84-b618-717e46a2bef3)

@vitaliy-guliy have you ran into this problem before?

Author: Yes, it seems you downloaded gzipped file.
Try to save the file with `.vsix.gz` extension and then unzip it like below
```
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix.gz
        gunzip /tmp/extension-1.vsix.gz
```
New `/tmp/extension-1.vsix` file should be created.

It depends on where you downloaded the file from.
If you tried to take it from Visual Studio Code marketplace, you will have `.vsix.gz`. If it is from Open VSX registry, you will have `.vsix`.
But honestly it is not obvious.
I think we could play a bit with `curl` arguments.

Author: I've mentioned this case in the docs ( see screenshots ).

> components:
>   - name: tools
>     container:
>       image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
>       env:
>         - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
>           value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'
> 
> commands:
>   - id: add-default-extensions
>     exec:
>       # name of the tooling container
>       component: tools
>       # download several extensions using curl
>       commandLine: |
>         curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix
>         curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix
> 
> events:
>   postStart:
>     - add-default-extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
          value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'

commands:
  - id: add-default-extensions
    exec:
      # name of the tooling container
      component: tools
      # download several extensions using curl
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix
        curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix

events:
  postStart:
    - add-default-extensions
```

Just a suggestion to provide a full devfile example

----

> * Include extension *.vsix* binaries to *che-code* image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Include the extensions' *.vsix* binaries in the *che-code* image.
```

+

> Having default extensions bundled in the editor image along with __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in a config map, will allow you to use default extensions without the need to change the Devfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having default extensions bundled in the editor image along with the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in a ConfigMap, will allow you to apply the default extensions without the need to change the Devfile.
```

Author: The PR check does not allow to use `ConfigMap`.
I will apply changes and then doublecheck.

+
Following steps will help you to add the extensions you need to the editor image.
+

> 1. Create a directory, prepare and put one or several *.vsix* extensions to this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory and place one or several *.vsix* extensions in this directory.
```

+
2. Create a Dockerfile with following content.
+
[source,]
----
# inherit che-incubator/che-code:latest 
FROM quay.io/che-incubator/che-code:latest
USER 0

# copy all .vsix files to /default-extensions directory
RUN mkdir --mode=775 /default-extensions
COPY --chmod=755 *.vsix /default-extensions/

# add instruction to the script to copy default extensions to the working container
RUN echo "cp -r /default-extensions /checode/" >> /entrypoint-init-container.sh
----
+

> 3. Build the image and then push it to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Build the image and then push it to a registry.
```

+
[,console]
----
$ docker build -t yourname/che-code:next .
$ docker push yourname/che-code:next
----
+

> 4. Add new config map, define __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable, specify absolute paths to the extensions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the new ConfigMap, define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify the absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}.
```

+

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> kind: ConfigMap
> apiVersion: v1
> metadata:
>   name: vscode-default-extensions
>   labels:
>     controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
>     controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
>   annotations:
>     controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
> data:
>   DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS: '/checode/default-extensions/extension1.vsix;/checode/default-extensions/extension2.vsix'
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: vscode-default-extensions
  namespace: user1-{prod-short} <1>
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
    controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
data:
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS: '/checode/default-extensions/extension1.vsix;/checode/default-extensions/extension2.vsix'
----
<1> An example user namespace.
```

Suggestion to specify that this configmap should be created in a user namespace

Author: What if we leave it as it is to be able to create a config map by simple copy-paste?

Reviewer: Sounds good to me, but in that case, could we add this suggestion? :

https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2819#discussion_r1842347913

Author: Done

+

> 5. Create a workspace using *yourname/che-code:next* image.
> First, open the dashboard and navigate to *Create Workspace*.
> Then, in the *Editor Selector* section expand *Use an Editor Definition* and put the editor URI to the *Editor Image*.
> Finally, create a workspace by clicking on any sample or by putting a git resitory URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create a workspace using *yourname/che-code:next* image.
First, open the dashboard and navigate to the *Create Workspace* tab on the left-hand side.
Then, in the *Editor Selector* section expand the *Use an Editor Definition* dropdown and set the editor URI to the *Editor Image*.
Finally, create a workspace by clicking on any sample or by setting a git repository URL.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configure default extensions
:keywords: extensions, workspace
:navtitle: Configure default extensions
// :page-aliases:

[id="visual-studio-code-default-extensions"]
= Configure default extensions

Default extensions, like recommended extensions, allow you to work with a pre-installed set of extensions.

Recommended extension is specified by adding the extension identifier to the workspace file or to the *.vscode/extensions.json* file of your project.
When the editor starts, the recommended extension will be fetched from the extension marketplace and installed.

Default extensions are specified by putting the extension binary *.vsix* file path to the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.
After startup, the editor checks for the environment variable, and if it is specified, takes the path to the extensions and installs it in the background without disturbing the user.

> Recommended extensions from *.vscode/extensions.json* and default extensions from the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable both installs extensions on editor startup. Recommended extensions are useful when extensions are different per workspace and when the desired extensions are available in the plugin registry configured in {prod-short}. Default extensions described in this documentation are useful for installing .vsix extensions by default from the editor level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default extensions are a pre-installed set of extensions, specified by putting the extension binary `.vsix` file path to the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.

After startup, the editor checks for this environment variable, and if it is specified, takes the path to the extensions and installs it in the background without disturbing the user.

Default extensions described in this documentation are useful for installing .vsix extensions by default from the editor level.
```

Reviewer 2: This introduction should be focused on default extensions, so I removed the mentions of recommended extensions.

I think it's better to make a separate doc about recommended extensions and use the paragraphs about recommended extensions there.

[NOTE]
====

> It is possible to specify several extensions separated by semicolon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify several extensions separated by semicolon.
```

[source,yaml]
----
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS='/projects/extension-1.vsix;/projects/extension-2.vsix'
----
====

> Below you can find several examples how to add *.vsix* files to your workspace and how to define the DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read on to learn how to define the DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable with multiple examples of adding `.vsix` files to your workspace.
```

.Procedure

> This documentation describes three different ways to embed default .vsix extensions for your workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three different ways to embed default `.vsix` extensions into your workspace:

* Put the extension binary into the source repository.
* Use the devfile `postStart` event to fetch extension binaries from the network.
* Include the extensions' `.vsix` binaries in the `che-code` image.
```

> * Put the extension binary to the source repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Putting the extension binary into the source repository
```

+

> The easiest way is to put the extension binary to the Git repository and define the environment variable in the devfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Putting the extension binary into the Git repository and defining the environment variable in the devfile is the easiest way to add default extensions to your workspace.
```

> If the *extension.vsix* file exists in the repository root, the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ could be set for a tooling container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `extension.vsix` file exists in the repository root, you can set the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ for a tooling container.
```

> Just specify it in your *.devfile.yaml* like below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Procedure
* Specify __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ in your `.devfile.yaml` as shown in the following example:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: 'DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS'
          value: '/projects/example-project/extension.vsix'
----

> * Use the Devfile *postStart* event to fetch extension binaries from the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Using the devfile *postStart* event to fetch extension binaries from the network
```

+

> It is possible to use *curl* or *wget* to download extensions to your workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use cURL or GNU Wget to download extensions to your workspace.
```

For that you need to:
+
** specify a devfile command to donload one or several extensions to your workpace
** add a *postStart* event to run the command on workspace startup

> ** define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the Devfile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Prerequisites
* Specify a devfile command to download one or several extensions to your workspace.
* Add a `postStart` event to run the specified download command on workspace startup.
* Define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the devfile.
```

+

> The following sample demonstrates what should be added to the devfile to add two extensions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Procedure
* Add the values shown in the following example to the devfile:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
          value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'

commands:
  - id: add-default-extensions
    exec:
      # name of the tooling container
      component: tools
      # download several extensions using curl
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix
        curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix

events:
  postStart:
    - add-default-extensions
----

> * Include the extensions' *.vsix* binaries in the *che-code* image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Including the extensions `.vsix` binaries in the `che-code` image.
```

+

> Having default extensions bundled in the editor image along with the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in a ConfigMap, will allow you to apply the default extensions without the need to change the Devfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With default extensions bundled in the editor image along with the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in a ConfigMap, you can apply the default extensions without changing the devfile.
```

+
Following steps will help you to add the extensions you need to the editor image.
+
1. Create a directory and place one or several *.vsix* extensions in this directory.
+
2. Create a Dockerfile with following content.
+
[source,]
----
# inherit che-incubator/che-code:latest 
FROM quay.io/che-incubator/che-code:latest
USER 0

# copy all .vsix files to /default-extensions directory
RUN mkdir --mode=775 /default-extensions
COPY --chmod=755 *.vsix /default-extensions/

# add instruction to the script to copy default extensions to the working container
RUN echo "cp -r /default-extensions /checode/" >> /entrypoint-init-container.sh
----
+
3. Build the image and then push it to a registry.
+
[,console]
----
$ docker build -t yourname/che-code:next .
$ docker push yourname/che-code:next
----
+

> 4. Add the new ConfigMap, define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify the absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the new ConfigMap in the user's {orch-namespace}, define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify the absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: vscode-default-extensions
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
    controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
data:
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS: '/checode/default-extensions/extension1.vsix;/checode/default-extensions/extension2.vsix'
----
+

> 5. Create a workspace using *yourname/che-code:next* image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Procedure
. Create a directory and place one or several *.vsix* extensions in this directory.
. Create a Dockerfile with following content:
+
[source,]
----
# inherit che-incubator/che-code:latest 
FROM quay.io/che-incubator/che-code:latest
USER 0

# copy all .vsix files to /default-extensions directory
RUN mkdir --mode=775 /default-extensions
COPY --chmod=755 *.vsix /default-extensions/

# add instruction to the script to copy default extensions to the working container
RUN echo "cp -r /default-extensions /checode/" >> /entrypoint-init-container.sh
----
+
. Build the image and then push it to a registry:
+
[,console]
----
$ docker build -t yourname/che-code:next .
$ docker push yourname/che-code:next
----
+
. In the user's {orch-namespace}, add the new ConfigMap with defined __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable, and specified absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: vscode-default-extensions
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
    controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
data:
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS: '/checode/default-extensions/extension1.vsix;/checode/default-extensions/extension2.vsix'
----
+
. Create a workspace using the `yourname/che-code:next` image.
```

> First, open the dashboard and navigate to the *Create Workspace* tab on the left-hand side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Open the dashboard and navigate to the *Create Workspace* tab on the left side.
```

> Then, in the *Editor Selector* section expand the *Use an Editor Definition* dropdown and set the editor URI to the *Editor Image*.
> Finally, create a workspace by clicking on any sample or by setting a git repository URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In the *Editor Selector* section, expand the *Use an Editor Definition* dropdown and set the editor URI to the *Editor Image*.
.. Create a workspace by clicking on any sample or by using a Git repository URL.
```

+
It is possible to use *curl* or *wget* to download extensions to your workspace.
For that you need to:
+
--
** specify a devfile command to download one or several extensions to your workpace
** add a *postStart* event to run the command on workspace startup
** define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the Devfile
--
+
The following sample demonstrates what should be added to the devfile to add two extensions.
+
====
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
          value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'

commands:
  - id: add-default-extensions
    exec:
      # name of the tooling container
      component: tools
      # download several extensions using curl
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix
        curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix

events:
  postStart:
    - add-default-extensions
----
====
+
[WARNING]
====

> It some cases *curl* may download *gzip* compressed file. This may make it impossible to install the extension.
> To fix that try to save the file to *.vsix.gz* and then decompress it with *gunzip*. It will replace *.vsix.gz* with unpacked *.vsix* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases *curl* may download a *gzip* compressed file. This may make it impossible to install the extension.
To fix that try to save the file as a *.vsix.gz* file and then decompress it with *gunzip*. This will replace the *.vsix.gz* file with an unpacked *.vsix* file.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configure default extensions
:keywords: extensions, workspace
:navtitle: Configure default extensions
// :page-aliases:

[id="visual-studio-code-default-extensions"]

> = Configure default extensions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Configuring default extensions
```

Default extensions are a pre-installed set of extensions, specified by putting the extension binary `.vsix` file path to the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.

After startup, the editor checks for this environment variable, and if it is specified, takes the path to the extensions and installs it in the background without disturbing the user.

> Default extensions described in this documentation are useful for installing .vsix extensions by default from the editor level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring default extensions is useful for installing .vsix extensions from the editor level.
```

[NOTE]
====

> You can specify several extensions separated by semicolon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to specify multiple extensions, separate them by semicolon.
```

[source,yaml]
----
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS='/projects/extension-1.vsix;/projects/extension-2.vsix'
----
====

> Read on to learn how to define the DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable with multiple examples of adding `.vsix` files to your workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read on to learn how to define the DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS environment variable, including multiple examples of adding `.vsix` files to your workspace.
```

* Put the extension binary into the source repository.
* Use the devfile `postStart` event to fetch extension binaries from the network.
* Include the extensions' `.vsix` binaries in the `che-code` image.

.Putting the extension binary into the source repository

Putting the extension binary into the Git repository and defining the environment variable in the devfile is the easiest way to add default extensions to your workspace.
If the `extension.vsix` file exists in the repository root, you can set the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ for a tooling container.

.Procedure
* Specify __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ in your `.devfile.yaml` as shown in the following example:
+
====
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: 'DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS'
          value: '/projects/example-project/extension.vsix'
----
====

.Using the devfile *postStart* event to fetch extension binaries from the network

You can use cURL or GNU Wget to download extensions to your workspace.
For that you need to:

--

> ** specify a devfile command to download one or several extensions to your workpace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* specify a devfile command to download extensions to your workpace
```

> ** add a *postStart* event to run the command on workspace startup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* add a `postStart` event to run the command on workspace startup
```

> ** define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the Devfile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the devfile
```

--

.Procedure
* Add the values shown in the following example to the devfile:
+
====
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.3.0
metadata:
  generateName: example-project
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
      image: quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
      env:
        - name: DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
          value: '/tmp/extension-1.vsix;/tmp/extension-2.vsix'

commands:
  - id: add-default-extensions
    exec:
      # name of the tooling container
      component: tools
      # download several extensions using curl
      commandLine: |
        curl https://.../extension-1.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-1.vsix
        curl https://.../extension-2.vsix --location -o /tmp/extension-2.vsix

events:
  postStart:
    - add-default-extensions
----
====
+
[WARNING]
====

> In some cases *curl* may download a *gzip* compressed file. This may make it impossible to install the extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases curl may download a `.gzip` compressed file. This might make installing the extension impossible.
```

To fix that try to save the file as a *.vsix.gz* file and then decompress it with *gunzip*. This will replace the *.vsix.gz* file with an unpacked *.vsix* file.

[source,yaml]
----
curl https://some-extension-url --location -o /tmp/extension.vsix.gz
gunzip /tmp/extension.vsix.gz
----
====

.Including the extensions `.vsix` binaries in the `che-code` image.

> With default extensions bundled in the editor image along with the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in a ConfigMap, you can apply the default extensions without changing the devfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With default extensions bundled in the editor image, and the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable defined in the ConfigMap, you can apply the default extensions without changing the devfile.
```

> Following steps will help you to add the extensions you need to the editor image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following the steps below to add the extensions you need to the editor image.
```

.Procedure

> * Create a directory and place one or several *.vsix* extensions in this directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a directory and place your selected `.vsix` extensions in this directory.
```

> * Create a Dockerfile with following content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a Dockerfile with the following content:
```

+
====
[source,]
----
# inherit che-incubator/che-code:latest 
FROM quay.io/che-incubator/che-code:latest
USER 0

# copy all .vsix files to /default-extensions directory
RUN mkdir --mode=775 /default-extensions
COPY --chmod=755 *.vsix /default-extensions/

# add instruction to the script to copy default extensions to the working container
RUN echo "cp -r /default-extensions /checode/" >> /entrypoint-init-container.sh
----
====

> * Build the image and then push it to a registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Build the image and then push it to a registry:
```

+
====
[,console]
----
$ docker build -t yourname/che-code:next .
$ docker push yourname/che-code:next
----
====

> * Add the new ConfigMap in the user's {orch-namespace}, define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify the absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add the new ConfigMap to the user's {orch-namespace}, define the __DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable, and specify the absolute paths to the extensions. This ConfigMap sets the environment variable to all workspaces in the user's {orch-namespace}.
```

+
====
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: vscode-default-extensions
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
    controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
data:
  DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS: '/checode/default-extensions/extension1.vsix;/checode/default-extensions/extension2.vsix'
----
====

> * Create a workspace using *yourname/che-code:next* image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a workspace using `yourname/che-code:next` image.
```
